---
title: "What I've Been Doing and Where I'm Going in 2024"
author: "Russell Waterhouse"
description: "The new year is well underway, how is it going?"
tags: ["2024", "goals"]
date: 2024-02-24T11:26:48-08:00
draft: false
---

# Happy March!

My blog has been a little quiet in the new year, and I just wanted to make a quick post
today explaining where I've been, what I've been doing, and where I'm going.

## My 2024 So Far


### Moving
First and foremonst, I've been moving, which makes it hard to dedicate
hours to blogging and exploring code. I'm in my current place until the end
of April, and after that I'll be moving again. Where to is not yet decided.

### A New Development Environment
After using VSCode with the Vim Plugin for over a year at work, and JetBrains IDE's
with the Vim plugin for years at home, I've decided that it's time for me to try to set
up a full Neovim/TMUX based development environment. My reasons for this are
twofold

1. I want a dev environment that is totally cross-platform. I want it to work
the same on Mac and Linux, my 2 biggest development OS's. I want to be able to
wipe any of my machines and have my dev environment reinstalled and reconfigured
EXACTLY how I want it within minutes.
2. I want a dev environment that is keyboard focused and configured exactly to
my own taste.

So far, it's going good. My strategy for this has been to use VSCode at work
still, and do my configuration at home. I've been doing all my development at
home in Neovim, and every time I want to open a full IDE for some feature
I take a few minutes and figure out how to add that feature to Neovim.
It's almost at the point where I could consider using this environment full-time.
I have my keybindings set up, my base configuration done, my LSP set up,
colourschemes, syntax highlighting, and general UI loogking good, fuzzy finding,
file management, and a few other quality of life things set up.

It's a pretty good setup, and I've found it both very rewarding to know everything
about my dev environment, and very productive to have everything configured to
be so efficient.

### Upskilling for Work
I can't talk too much about this here for NDA reasons, but I'm getting put on
a new project next week that has required me to learn a lot of new skills in
frontend technologies. It's been a lot of fun and very rewarding to learn
all of this.

I've been a backend engineer and I've been a mobile engineer and I've done
enough devops work to be called a devops engineer, and these last 2 months
going deep into learning about frontend has really made me a very well-rounded
fullstack engineer. It's been a lot of fun learning Remix and GraphQL and
getting more familiar with React. A lot of holes in my knowledge have been
filled, which is always a great feeling.


## My Plans for the rest of Q1 2024
The rest of Q1 2024 is pretty much eaten up by finishing what's above.
With upskilling, there is still a lot to learn.

With my dev environment, I need to set up some more fit and finish in neovim.
All the big chunks are in place, and it's just a matter of making things
work a little more smoothly. Things like reconfiguring my file manager,
adding some more remaps for things I do often, improving repo-wide search,
adding a markdown previewer, maybe choosing a new colourscheme (I technically
have a monokai colourscheme everywhere but my status bar, where I have molokai,
and that's starting to bother me.)

With moving, there is still some final setup to do in my new place, and I need
to start selling things to prepare for my move in May.


All in all, I have about a month to do about a month of work. Convenient!

## My Plans for Q2-Q4 2024.

First up will be my second move of the year. It do be like that sometimes.

Second, I plan to overhaul this blog. I've known for a while that the mobile
experience sucks, and I need to fix that. 
