---
title: "What Language am I using for Advent of Code 2023?"
author: "Russell Waterhouse"
description: "This year I'm learning a new language with advent of code"
tags: ["Advent of Code 2023", "Programming", "Programming Languages"]
date: 2023-11-03T08:27:37-07:00
draft: false
---

# Advent of Code 2023

// TODO: Image here


## First, a Short Story

Pretend you're me, a few months from now. You log into work at the startup 
that employs you, and you start working on yesterday's ticket. By chance, you
log into aws console to test something. You notice something on your way to 
whatever service you needed to look at. 

```
COSTS UP 3482% COMPARED TO LAST MONTH
```

uhhh.... what? 

We should look at that.   
We should look at that now. 

`click click click`

Why has everything scaled so much? Our lambdas, our db cluster, everything? 
It's ... massive? 

Surely this is a mistake.  
You look at the most recent PR. It fixes typo in a translations file.   
You look at the second-most recent PR. It's clean too. 

So, DDOS then? But wait, no, we use cloudflare, we shouldn't get DDOS. 

Finally, you check google analytics. _Traffic is UP_

You check your analytics. Sales are up, new memberships are WAY UP. 

You check social media. Your biggest competitor went out of business, and
everyone is flocking to you and your service!

You've done it! You've actually done it! You and your team have 
crossed the infamous adoption chasm and it happened overnight! 

But your costs are still so high ...

And now you have to deal with it. You abandon whatever feature you were working
on and start profiling your product. You find 3 areas that are using WAY more 
compute and memory than they should. Dutifully, you start trying to optimize the
first one.

#### 1 Week Later...

Your growth is continuing much faster than you could ever hope to optimize this
ruby code. The day you've hoped for and feared is upon you. Nothing else makes
any sense to tackle this problem.  

You have to re-write it.  
Ruby just won't cut it. 
Neither will JavaScript, Neither will python.  
Java probably won't either, too much memory usage there.   
Go would work for the current traffic levels, but when will your growth stop?  
No, you need as much performance as possible. 

## Rust or C++?
What do you have to reach for when you need to build something big and fast? 
Right now, I currently have nothing, which is what I want to fix with Advent 
of Code this year. 
In the situation I described above, really only 2 things make sense in my head. 
C++ or Rust. I wouldn't want to fall back on my C knowledge from university. 

So, which one did I choose? Let's break it down. 

## Criteria

## Rust Evaluation

## C++ Evaluation

## The Winner

## Closing Thoughts
